# Equitable and Efficient Collaborations

## Introduction

Meetings are a common part of our work life and are essential for
sharing information, planning, organizing, and progressing on
projects. They are a necessary part of working together, but are often
marred by preventable issues that negatively impact the success of the
outcome and the experience of the participants.

They can be better.

The purpose of this toolkit is to support improved collaboration
through efficient and equitable meetings. This toolkit was written to
serve as a handy resource to save time, increase efficiency and
promote equitable and inclusive spaces for collective thinking and
action.

We cannot provide easy solutions to all meeting challenges, but this
resource is designed to help smooth some of the bumps in the road. We
have identified some of the recurrent challenges with meetings and
collected some of the good practices that can help you out to
save time and achieve your objectives.

This toolkit includes guidance for four categories of meetings: 

* Formal meetings
* Project management meetings
* Brainstorming meetings
* Strategic planning meetings

### Equity

Meetings can reflect our collective values, making it crucial to
address dynamics that affect equity. These gatherings can
inadvertently reinforce hierarchies, both explicitly and implicitly,
and often become dominated by seniority or strong personalities. This
dominance can hinder creative thinking and suppress minority
perspectives.

Creating space for overlooked or marginalized viewpoints is essential.

To foster equity, start by incorporating equity considerations into
every stage of meeting planning and execution. Here are some
strategies to help achieve this:

**Open and Consistent Information Sharing:** Ensure that all relevant
information is accessible to everyone before, during, and after the
meeting.

**Diverse Collaboration Mechanisms:** Utilize both synchronous and
asynchronous collaboration tools to accommodate different schedules
and preferences.

**Personal Outreach:** Proactively engage with individuals who might
be less inclined to speak up, ensuring their voices are heard.

**Acknowledging Different Communication Styles:** Recognize and
validate various learning and communication styles within the group,
allowing everyone to contribute effectively.

Implementing these approaches requires effort, but the reward is a
more productive and enjoyable collaborative environment. By doing so,
we not only enhance our meetings but also actively uphold equity
principles in our workspaces.

### Efficiency

Meetings require time, from both organizers and the
participants. Making the best use of that time requires planning and
clarity in purpose and process.  It is important that meetings have
defined goals/objectives, hold space for sufficient discussion and
inclusive participation, facilitate actions through roles and
responsibilities, and support accountability for next steps and
desired outcomes. For efficient meetings, it is critical to think
through and structure the steps â€“ pre-meeting, during meeting and
post-meeting.

## Meeting types

[Formal meetings](formal-meetings.md) - meetings with a higher level
of formality than most meetings!

[Project management meetings](project-management.md) - regular
meetings for managing a project from start to finish.

[Brainstorming meeting](brainstorming.md) - small group meeting to
generate ideas, to problem solve, and think creatively.

[Strategic planning meetings](strategic-planning.md) - meetings to create or contribute to strategic planning processes.

## Tools and Templates

We have made a number of resources available on [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/15bG3BE4BBQg0aNOMKHzRPuvN4hl3MqiF?usp=sharing).

* Agenda template
* Meeting invite template

## Contact information

These materials were produced at UC Davis in a collaboration between
[Grand Challenges](https://grandchallenges.ucdavis.edu/) (Molly McKinney),
[Global Affairs](https://globalaffairs.ucdavis.edu/) (Jolynn Shoemaker), and
[DataLab](https://datalab.ucdavis.edu/) (C. Titus Brown).

Please contact Molly McKinney at
[mcmckinney@ucdavis.edu](mailto:mcmckinney@ucdavis.edu) with
suggestions and questions!
